We request an allocation to support a graduate/undergraduate class at LSU, to be taught Fall 2012, on computational science. The course is team-taught by researchers active in high end computing and the XSEDE, and focuses on simulation and cyberinfrastructure. A crucial part of the course is the real world use of production resources so that students gain experience in the skills they will need to contribute to interdisciplinary research in computational science. Resources from XSEDE are requested for the simulation and frameworks modules of the class which will involve the preparation and deployment of parallel (up to 100 core) simulations. The main simulation software to be used the Cactus Framework and Carpet AMR driver.
The course web page is at https://wiki.cct.lsu.edu/sci-comp/Main_Page and the synopsis of the course is: Scientific Computing involves building computational models and analysis techniques to investigate and understand scientific problems. These models are often deployed and run on large scale, parallel computers and benefit from state-of-the-art resources and capabilities for software frameworks, data, networks, grid computing, and visualization. This lecture based course is designed to prepare computer scientists for working in areas related to scientific computing, and to expose students in different science fields to the issues and technologies involved in high-end scientific computing. The course is focused on practical, real-world issues in application frameworks, networks and data, visualization, and distributed scientific computing. Lectures will cover basic principles and examples in each area, describe state-of-the-art technologies and approaches, and include a large practical component. The course will also include lectures on best practices for software development in diverse, interdisciplinary teams. Course outcomes include: Understanding of scientific applications particularly simulation codes, including core components and traits of a simulation, issues such as performance and verification Practical experience with production systems including Future Grid and XSEDE. Practical experience with scientific research software including Cactus, SAGA, VISH Practical experience and understanding of key technologies and software development tools for computational science.

